= tweetftp

Finally, a mechanism for sharing files on twitter that works WITHIN twitter
itself. No more third-party services and cryptic short URLs, now you can share files directly
with your friends or with the world one tweet at a time.

== Uploading Files

A file is uploaded to the status service as a series of messages:

* One header for the file transfer. This contains the string "==BEGIN", the file name, file permissions, and a modified Base64-encoded string of the file's MD5 checksum with the hashtag "#tweetftp" on the end. We modify the string to remove the trailing = signs and replace the characters '+' and '/' with '-' and '_' respectively. While clients may use the checksum to verify the file was retrieved correctly, this is not a requirement: the checksum is primarily used to associate the status updates with one another. The header is also where clients may add a few hashtags to describe the file.
* 0 or more Description lines. These include the string ==DESC, the modified checksum string from the header, a numerical index, and freeform text. Clients use the index to stitch together a text description from multiple messages.
* The file itself. This is transmitted as multiple lines with the following fields: an index (starting from 0), up to 77-bytes of the Base64-uuencoding of the file, and the checksum string.
* A message footer. This contains the string "==END", the file name again, the total number of file message lines, and the Checksum string again.

Fields for each message type are separated with a single space. In addition,
if the file transfer is meant to be addressed to a single recipient (rather
than shared with everybody), each message type is prefixed with the @username
of the recipient. An example (with the data lines truncated for conciseness)
is below.

  ==BEGIN random.txt 644 106flmMwmFtfZnkYTf1g-g #tweetftp
  ==DESC 0 This is a test. This is only a test. But I can write a bunch of words about 106flmMwmFtfZnkYTf1g-g #tweetftp
  ==DESC 1 it being a test here and see how it works. #foo #bar #baz 106flmMwmFtfZnkYTf1g-g #tweetftp
  0 YnJlYWtmYXN0Cmx1bmNoCmRpbm5lcgpzbmFjawplYXRpbmcKZHJpbmtpbmcKZWF0aW5nCm1lYWwK 106flmMwmFtfZnkYTf1g-g #tweetftp
  1 CnNhbmR3aWNoCiAgc2FuZHdpY2hlcwogIHNhbW1pY2gKICBiYXAKICBncmluZGVyCiAgaG9hZ2ll 106flmMwmFtfZnkYTf1g-g #tweetftp
  ...
  31 dWVlbg== 106flmMwmFtfZnkYTf1g-g #tweetftp
  ==END food_terms.txt 32 106flmMwmFtfZnkYTf1g-g #tweetftp

== Downloading Files

To download the files from tweetftp, it is enough to use the MD5
checksum string to retrieve all the individual fragments and reassemble
into a single file. This MD5 checksum can either be retrieved directly
from the message header or footer or could be sent separately to 
intended recipients. Once all of the individual message fragments 
are retrieved, the index fields can be used to reorder the parts into
a file which is then uudecoded onto local storage. Note that while the
Base64 checksum should be unique enough to find the file, it is recommended
that the sender's identity is also factored into the search. Otherwise, it
might be possible to third parties to corrupt files by sending their own
spoof messages with the same checksum string.

== Practical Considerations

Security is not specified in this approach. Users have the option of
using specific security mechanisms to encrypt/sign the file before
transmitting it. For access control, you can share files on a protected
account.

Twitter currently allows API clients to only post up to 150 messages per hour.
This practically limits this mechanism to a maximum speed of 0.019kbps. There
is hope though! Heavy users of twitter may apply for an elevated rate limit of
20000 requests per hour, which increases throughput to a comparatively blazing
2.51kbps. On the bright side, this means that only truly important files will be
shared via tweetftp, and the journey is more important than reaching the destination,
isn't it?

Since it would take only 60,000 or so tweets to transmit an MP3, there would
exist the natural temptation to use this mechanism for illegal file sharing.
This problem is best addressable through legal and social solutions however,
and technical approaches are beyond the reach of this document. Remember,
NEVER use tweetftp to illegally share copyrighted material.

== Roadmap

* Actual tests
* Checksum verifications of downloads
* TworrentTracker for tracking public file uploads to twitter
* Get purchased by Google, Facebook, or a desperate media company.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Jacob Harris. See LICENSE for details.
